---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Programming with Duct Tape
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Javascript as a Programming Language
by Andrew Kurano

		When I first started programming back in high school we used a website 
	called codehs.org.  The main language used in codehs was javascript and 
	the website used a pretty simple graphics API.  I felt that when I first 
	learned the language, it was very easy to use since I didn't have to 
	worry about things like images and folders since I could just get images 
	that were on the web, and simply provide the URL link in the javascript 
	code.  In addition to this, I found that java script was also easy to use 
	because it could be compiled on the webpage meaning that I didn't have to 
	use any command line.
		Now that I know some other languages, such as C, and C# I find 
	javascript incredibly disorganized.  Whenever I see javascript code now, 
	I think it looks like it was just hacked together by a toddler, even 
	when it is organized pretty well.  With that said I do still like it as 
	a programming language.  I have had to use it a lot in web design for my 
	job.   I like how easy it is to do things and how easily it lets me impress 
	my supervisors with minimal effort on my part.
		I found that the practice WODS were pretty useful, but they took 
	a while for me to get started.  Personally I have a lot of trouble 
	getting started on assignments, but once I build up momentum I 
	find it easier to continue working.  Because of this, having 
	assignments on a near-daily basis is really difficult for me and 
	gives me a lot of stress.  Since it is a lot of stuff to learn I 
	don't think I have much of a choice in the matter so I will have 
	to adjust my learning style.



