---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Obsessive Compulsive Coding/ Coding Style
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2017-01-25
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

By Andrew Kurano                                        

I think that coding style is incredibly important when writing a program for others or for yourself.  Coding style helps keep     everything organized and makes it  easier for the coder to find where parts of the code are and determine the order of the code by just looking at it.  However I also believe that being too obsessed about coding style can inhibit your ability to code.  When you are too concerned about how neat your code looks, it can often slow down your development momentum.
          
When I program, I find that it is best accomplished in two iterations.  The first time I write a program or script, I need to know how things work, and I don’t have time to worry about formatting and coding style.  Because of this, the first time I write a program, my coding style is often quite disorganized.  With that said, I don’t go out of my way to make my code as messy as possible.  I try my best to keep things orderly but by the nature of not knowing what I’m doing, I don’t have too much control over how neatly the program will turn out. 
          
After I create the first iteration of the program, I find that I learn enough about whatever I’m writing to be able to rewrite the program over again.  In addition to this, I know the problems and solutions to writing the program.  The second time I write the code, I am incredibly meticulous in my coding style.  I make sure each method is commented in  painstaking detail, all my brackets are lined up, and all my variables are grouped together  conventionally.  After I write this version of code, I am satisfied with other people reading and working on it as well as building further.  Sometimes I like the organization so much that I will just scroll back and forth through the code and look at it as if it were a piece of art.
         
I find that this two step process works well for me because it gives me all the benefits of coding aggressively without anything slowing down my learning process, while still giving me really clean code at the end.  One downside is that I sacrifice some extra time since I am essentially writing the code twice.  However, the second time I write the code, it goes by much quicker than the first since it is mostly reformatting and taking snippets from my first version.  Overall I do feel that coding style is very important, so long as it is used in the correct times.
          
          
          
            
          
	


