---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smart vs. Stupid Questions
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2017-01-25
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Smart vs. Stupid Questions
by Andrew Kurano

Smart Question:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48454969/repeat-function-adding-values-if-remainder-of-sum-is-less-than-defined-number


Stupid Question:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48307652/display-list-of-downloads-in-navbarmenu-in-shiny


   After reading “How to ask questions the smart way” by Eric Raymond, I understand how it feels to be on 
the other side of a questions board.  Judging from what he said, so long as you show that you have put 
in effort to solve the problem yourself, you will be able to find help on the internet.  In addition to 
this, it is also advisable to know your audience when you post and make sure that wherever you post your 
information, it is relevant.  For the most part, so long as these rules are met, other users will very 
willingly help you out.
   An example of a smart question can be found above.  This user immediately begins by saying that this is 
her first time using Stack Overflow and apologizes for any errors.  She then goes on to say that she has
already attempted to search for the answer online but did not find a suitable solution.  At this point 
she comes across as a beginner programmer that seems to be having some difficulty with her code and is 
now trying to see if she could find some answers on Stack Overflow.  She then explains the problem in 
great detail and then explains how she tried to fix it, showing her attempt to solve the problem herself.  
She then opens herself up to criticism over both her coding style and work.  After reading her question 
I think she comes across as a very modest programmer that tried her hardest but could not solve the problem 
and I would very willingly help her out.
   An example of a stupid question can also be found in the links above.  This person starts their question 
by saying what they wanted to do.  They then copied and pasted their code straight to Stack Overflow and 
screenshot their results.  They then asked “how can I fix it?”  Asking a question like this is basically 
asking someone else on the internet to do this problem for you instead of asking them to teach you how to 
solve the problem.  Someone actually posted an answer to this question in the form of what they did to 
solve the problem.  Their answer was just the solution to the problem and the person who asked the question 
 probably did not learn much from this experience.
   The difference between asking smart and stupid questions is often the difference between you getting, and not 
getting an answer on Stack Overflow.  Remember to phrase your questions respectfully since the people answering 
the question often have many questions to go through and don’t want to waste time on doing other people’s work 
for them.
