---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Design Patterns
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-04-25
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

by Andrew Kurano

  I think that design patterns are one of the most important parts of coding today.  I remember reading a quote in a meme that went "What one coder can complete in a month, two coders can complete in two months".  Honestly, I think this is incredibly true. A lot of times when I program with others, I feel like working on one single task or even project at the same time can is very difficult.  This is because there are so many different ways that you can do something, and you have to learn and read what the other coders have wrote every single time.  This is where design patterns come in.  Design patterns allow for a very basic and efficient structure for solving a problem to be implemented whenever that problem comes up.  That means that whenever you see a certain design pattern comes up, it is really easy to assume how the entire project is coded.  I think that having this ability makes it easier for multiple people to work on a single project, and quicker for new members to learn the project structure.
  The other advantage of design patterns is having an easy access solution to every single problem.  If I remember correctly, I think the saying is "Every problem you have has already been encountered and solved before", or something along those lines.  This saying embodies the fact that you are definitely not the best programmer in the world, and every problem that you ever had or will have, has most likely been solved by someone smarter and more experienced than you.  Design patterns are like having a built in amazing answer to your problem.   
