---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Frameworks
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2017-01-25
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

                                              UI Frameworks

          
              UI Frameworks are used as wrappers to allow quick development of pretty responsive 
         web pages.  While some people view them as difficult, I personally find them a lot easier
         than using HTML and CSS to design web pages.  Whenever I use HTML and CSS I find that 
         as I create more and more code, conflicts begin to form as a result of poor planning.  I
         think that UI frameworks are a great way to allow professionals to figure out the gritty
         parts of web design while leaving modular elements to you.
              One of the major downsides of UI Frameworks, is having to learn the entire framework
         from scratch.  Most UI Frameworks have their own way of being used and often require a 
         large time investment to learn.  However in my experience I feel that a lot of the 
         Semantic UI classes are condensed versions of existing categories of objects.  For example
         many websites utilize center aligned objects, or divisions.  The HTML/CSS solution for 
         this is to either play around with the margins and floating, or write javascript to figure
         it out for you.  The Semantic UI makes this a lot easier by simply having an aligned 
         center class which automatically figures it out for you.  In addition to this, most of the
         features of Semantic UI were relatively easy to learn, since they mostly consisted of 
         adding a selection of classes to each div in order to create the desired look.  Overall,
         I did not think Semantic UI was that difficult to pick up, or difficult to use.  If 
         anything, I think it is a little bit limited in capabilities, but it saves a lot of time.
               For use in software engineering, Semantic UI can also be very useful.  Regular HTML
          and CSS can be used just as effectively for coding, so long as it is kept organized.  
          However from personal experience, keeping HTML and CSS organized is incredibly difficult
          and either requires a lot of forethought on how to implement the project, or multiple
          reimplementations in order to achieve better organization.  Semantic UI helps to limit
          this by coming with a default set of preorganized classes.  All of these classes are 
          already organized into a format that is easily readable and incredibly modular.  Any 
          additions can simply be made within your own CSS which helps keep all of the code 
          maintainable.  
               I have had some experince in Bootstrap before, however I did build from a default
          template theme.  Themes and templates are another great part of UI Frameworks.  Templates
          allow for non experienced users to be able to create their own websites, and experienced
          users to start from existing code.  UI Frameworks allow for these themes to be more easily
          created since they provide most of the basic functions included with each website.
               For the most part, I really liked using the Semantic UI Framework. I did think that 
          it was limited in its capabilities, which wasn't a bad thing.  Semantic UI felt like a
          website starter pack since it came with everything that most modern websites already have.
          Icons, column layout, and aligning divs was made pretty easy.  I don't think will end up 
          using Semantic UI again, unless I'm trying to whip out a demo really quickly, but I do 
          appreciate its ease of use.



